this is a day I've been looking forward
to for two and a half years every once
in a while a revolutionary product comes
along that changes everything
and Apple has been well first of all
ones very fortunate if you get to work
on just one of these in your career
apples been very fortunate it's been
able to introduce a few of these into
the world 1984 we introduced the
Macintosh it didn't just change Apple it
changed the whole computer industry
in 2001 we introduced the first iPod and
it didn't just it didn't just change the
way we all listen to music it changed
the entire music industry well today
we're introducing three revolutionary
products of this class the first one is
a widescreen iPod with touch controls
the second is a revolutionary mobile
and the third is a breakthrough internet
communications device so three things a
widescreen iPod with touch controls a
revolutionary mobile phone and a
breakthrough internet communications
device an iPod a phone and an Internet
communicator an iPod a phone
these are not three separate devices
this is one device
and we are calling it iPhone today
today Apple is going to reinvent the
phone and here it is
now
actually here it is but we're gonna
leave it there for now so before we get
into it let me let me talk about a
category of things the most advanced
phones are called smart phones so they
say and they typically combine a phone
plus some email capability plus they say
it's the Internet's or the baby internet
in the one device and they all have
these plastic little keyboards on them
and the problem is that they're not so
smart and they're not so easy to use so
if you kind of make a you know business
school 101 graph of a smart axis and the
easy to use axis phones regular cell
phones are kind of right there they're
not so smart and then they're you know
not so easy to use but smart phones are
definitely a little smarter but they
actually are harder to use they're
really complicated just for the basic
stuff people have a hard time figuring
out how to use them well we don't want
to do either one of these things what we
want to do is make a leapfrog product
that is way smarter than any mobile
device has ever been and super easy to
use this is what iPhone is okay so we're
gonna reinvent the phone now we're gonna
start with a revolutionary user
interface is the result of years of
research and development and of course
it's an interplay of hardware and
software now why do we need a
revolutionary user interface I mean
here's four smartphones right Motorola Q
the BlackBerry palm treo nokia e62 the
usual suspects and what's wrong with
their user interfaces well the problem
with them is really sort of in the
bottom 40 there it's it's this stuff
right here they all have these keyboards
that are there whether you need them or
not to be there and they all have these
control buttons
are fixed in plastic and are the same
for every application well every
application wants a slightly different
user interface a slightly optimized set
of buttons just for it and what happens
if you think of a great idea six months
from now you can't run around and add a
button to these things they're already
shipped so what do you do it doesn't
work because the buttons and the
controls can't change they can't change
for each application and they can't
change down the road if you think of
another great idea you want to add to
this product well how do you solve this
hmm it turns out we have solved it we
solved it in computers 20 years ago we
solved it with a bitmap screen that
could display anything we want put any
user interface up and a pointing device
we solved it with the mouse right we
solve this problem so how are we gonna
take this to a mobile device
well what we're gonna do is get rid of
all these buttons and just make a giant
screen a giant screen now how are we
gonna communicate this we don't want to
carry around a mouse right so what are
we gonna do Oh a stylus right we're
gonna use a stylus No who wants a stylus
you have to get them and put them away
and you'll lose them yuck nobody wants a
stylus so let's not use a stylus we're
going to use the best pointing device in
the world we're gonna use a pointing
device that we're all born with were
born with ten of them we're gonna use
our fingers we're going to touch us with
our fingers and we have invented a new
technology called multi-touch which is
phenomenal it works like magic you don't
need a stylus it's far more accurate
than any touch display that's ever been
shipped it ignores unintended touches
it's super smart you can do multi-finger
gestures on it and boy have we patented
it
so
we've been very lucky to have brought a
few revolutionary user interfaces to the
market in our time
first was the mouse the second was the
click wheel and now we're gonna bring
multi-touch to the market and each of
these revolutionary user interfaces has
made possible a revolutionary product
the Mac the iPod and now the iPhone so a
revolutionary user interface we're gonna
build on top of that with software now
software on mobile phones is like it's
like baby software
it's not so powerful and today we're
gonna show you a software or
breakthrough software that's at least
five years ahead of what's on any other
phone now how do we do this well we
start with a strong foundation iPhone
runs OS 10
why
why would we want to run such a
sophisticated operating system on a
mobile device well because it's got
everything we need
it's got multitasking it's got the best
networking it already knows how to power
manage we've been doing this on mobile
computers for years it's got awesome
security and the right apps it's got
everything from cocoa and the graphics
and it's got core animation built in and
it's got the audio and video that OS 10
is famous for it's God all the stuff we
want and it's built right in to iPhone
and that has led us create desktop class
applications and networking right not
the crippled stuff that you find on most
phones this is real desktop class
applications now you know one of the
pioneers of our industry Alan Kay has
had a lot of great quotes throughout the
years and I ran across one of them
recently that explains how we look at
this explains why we go about doing
things the way we do because we love
software and here's the quote people who
are really serious about software should
make their own hardware you know Alan
said this thirty years ago
and this is how we feel about it and so
we're bringing breakthrough software to
a mobile device for the first time it's
five years ahead of anything on any
other phone the second thing we're doing
is we're learning from the iPod syncing
with iTunes you know we're gonna ship
our hundred millionth iPod this year and
that's a tens of millions of people that
know how to sync these devices with
their PCs or Mac and sync all of their
media right onto their iPod right so you
just drop your iPod in and it
automatically syncs you're gonna do the
same thing with iPhone it automatically
syncs to your PC or Mac right through
iTunes and iTunes is going to sync all
your media onto your iPhone your music
your audio books podcasts movies TV
shows music videos but it also syncs a
ton of data your contacts your calendars
photos which you can get on your iPod
today your notes your your bookmarks
from your web browser your email
accounts your whole email setup all that
stuff can be moved over to I phone
completely automatically it's really
nice and we do it we do it through
iTunes again you go to iTunes and you
set it up just like you'd set up an iPod
or an Apple TV and you set up what you
want sync to your iPhone and it's just
like an iPod charge and sync
so sync with iTunes third thing I want
to talk about a little is design we've
designed something wonderful for your
hand just wonderful and this is what it
looks like it's got a three and a half
inch screen on it
it's really big and it's the highest
resolution screen we've ever shipped
it's a hundred and sixty pixels per inch
highest we've ever shipped it's gorgeous
and on the front there's only one button
down there we call it the home button it
takes you home from wherever you are and
that's it let's take a look aside it's
really thin it's thinner than any
smartphone out there at eleven point six
millimeters thinner than the Q thinner
than the Black Jack thinner than all of
them it's really nice and we got some
controls on the side we got a little
switch for ring and silent we've got a
volume up and down control let's look at
the back on the back the biggest thing
of note is we got a two megapixel camera
built right in
the other side and we're back on the
front so let's take a look at the top
now we've got a headset jack
three-and-a-half millimeter all your
iPod headphones fit right in
we've got a place a little tray for your
SIM card and we've got one switch for
sleep and wake just push it to go to
sleep
push it to wake up let's take a look at
the bottom we've got a speaker you've
got a microphone and we've got our 30
pin iPod connector so that's the bottom
now we've also got some stuff you can't
see we've got three really advanced
sensors built into this phone the first
one is a proximity sensor it senses when
physical objects get close so when you
bring iPhone up to your ear
to take a phone call it turns off a
display and it turns off the touch
sensor instantly why do you want to do
that well one to save battery but two so
you don't get spurious inputs from your
face into the touch screen just
automatically turns them off take away
boom it's back on so it's got a
proximity sensor built-in it's got an
ambient light sensor as well we sense
the ambient lighting conditions and
adjust the brightness of the display to
match the ambient lighting conditions
again better user experience saves power
and the third thing we've got is an
accelerometer so that we can tell when
you switch from portrait to landscape